README.md, before:

# MUDDD (MultiUser Data Driven Dungeon)

_Exploring the ancient MUD through the lens of modern AI_

---

## Table of Contents

- [Purpose & Philosophy](#purpose--philosophy)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Monorepo Structure](#monorepo-structure)
- [Current Proof of Concept](#current-proof-of-concept)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Contributing & Exploration](#contributing--exploration)
- [Artificial Intelligence Usage Notice](#artificial-intelligence-usage-notice)

---

## Purpose & Philosophy

MUDDD is a proof-of-concept project that reimagines the classic Multi-User Dungeon (MUD) using Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate rich, immersive, and dynamic descriptions of the game world. Our goal is to blend the nostalgia of text-based adventures with the creative power of AI, letting the LLM describe what you see, feel, and experience as you explore.

This POC is set in the Inferno of Dante's Divina Commedia, offering a small dungeon to explore with traditional MUD commands and a system of dynamic events that influence the AI-generated narrative.

## Technologies Used

- **Turborepo** for monorepo management
- **TypeScript** throughout all apps and packages
- **Vite** for fast development
- **LLM integration** for dynamic content generation
- **pnpm** for package management

## Monorepo Structure

This repository is organized as a Turborepo with the following apps and packages:

### Apps

- [**server**](./apps/server) — The backend game engine, handling world state, player actions, and LLM interactions.
- [**client-terminal**](./apps/client-terminal) — A terminal-based client interface for interacting with the dungeon.

### Packages

- [**core**](./packages/core) — Shared logic, types, and utilities for the MUD engine and clients.
- [**eslint-config**](./packages/eslint-config) — Shared ESLint configuration for code quality.
- [**typescript-config**](./packages/typescript-config) — Shared TypeScript configuration.

## Current Proof of Concept

- **Setting:** The Inferno from Dante's Divina Commedia
- **Gameplay:** Explore a small dungeon using classic MUD commands
- **Dynamic Events:** In-game events can alter the world and affect LLM-generated descriptions
- **AI Descriptions:** All room, item, and event descriptions are dynamically generated by an LLM

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
   ```sh
   pnpm install
   ```
2. Build all packages:
   ```sh
   pnpm build
   ```
3. Set up your `.env` files with the necessary LLM credentials (see per-app documentation for details).
4. Start the server:
   ```sh
   pnpm --filter server dev
   # or
   pnpm --filter server start
   ```
5. Start the terminal client:
   ```sh
   client-terminal
   ```

For more details, see the README in each app or package directory.

## Contributing & Exploration

This project is experimental and open to feedback, ideas, and contributions! Dive in, explore the code, and help shape the future of AI-driven MUDs.

---

### Artificial Intelligence Usage Notice

This project leveraged Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools for assistance during the development.

It is essential to highlight that any AI-generated code snippet or suggestion subsequently integrated into this project has been subjected to a rigorous process of critical review, comprehension, specific adaptation to the project's context, and validation via extensive testing by the developers.

The ultimate responsibility for the quality, functionality, security, and maintainability of the entire codebase remains firmly with the human developers, who ensure its consistency and reliability.

Commit message:

feat: added .env-example files and updated doc

README.md, after:

# MUDDD (MultiUser Data Driven Dungeon)

_Exploring the ancient MUD through the lens of modern AI_

---

## Table of Contents

- [Purpose & Philosophy](#purpose--philosophy)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Monorepo Structure](#monorepo-structure)
- [Current Proof of Concept](#current-proof-of-concept)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Contributing & Exploration](#contributing--exploration)
- [Artificial Intelligence Usage Notice](#artificial-intelligence-usage-notice)

---

## Purpose & Philosophy

MUDDD is a proof-of-concept project that reimagines the classic Multi-User Dungeon (MUD) using Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate rich, immersive, and dynamic descriptions of the game world. Our goal is to blend the nostalgia of text-based adventures with the creative power of AI, letting the LLM describe what you see, feel, and experience as you explore.

This POC is set in the Inferno of Dante's Divina Commedia, offering a small dungeon to explore with traditional MUD commands and a system of dynamic events that influence the AI-generated narrative.

## Technologies Used

- **Turborepo** for monorepo management
- **TypeScript** throughout all apps and packages
- **Vite** for fast development
- **Ollama** as the LLM provider for dynamic content generation
- **pnpm** for package management

## Monorepo Structure

This repository is organized as a Turborepo with the following apps and packages:

### Apps

- [**server**](./apps/server) — The backend game engine, handling world state, player actions, and LLM interactions.
- [**client-terminal**](./apps/client-terminal) — A terminal-based client interface for interacting with the dungeon.

### Packages

- [**core**](./packages/core) — Shared logic, types, and utilities for the MUD engine and clients.
- [**eslint-config**](./packages/eslint-config) — Shared ESLint configuration for code quality.
- [**typescript-config**](./packages/typescript-config) — Shared TypeScript configuration.

## Current Proof of Concept

- **Setting:** The Inferno from Dante's Divina Commedia
- **Gameplay:** Explore a small dungeon using classic MUD commands
- **Dynamic Events:** In-game events can alter the world and affect LLM-generated descriptions
- **AI Descriptions:** All room, item, and event descriptions are dynamically generated by an LLM

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
   ```sh
   pnpm install
   ```
2. Build all packages:
   ```sh
   pnpm build
   ```
3. Set up your `.env` files in each app based on the provided `.env-example` files (e.g., `OLLAMA_BASE_URL`, `OLLAMA_MODEL`, `MUD_SERVER_URL`).
4. Start the server:
   ```sh
   pnpm --filter server dev
   # or
   pnpm --filter server start
   ```
5. Start the terminal client:
   ```sh
   client-terminal
   ```

For more details, see the README in each app or package directory.

## Contributing & Exploration

This project is experimental and open to feedback, ideas, and contributions! Dive in, explore the code, and help shape the future of AI-driven MUDs.

---

### Artificial Intelligence Usage Notice

This project leveraged Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools for assistance during the development.

It is essential to highlight that any AI-generated code snippet or suggestion subsequently integrated into this project has been subjected to a rigorous process of critical review, comprehension, specific adaptation to the project's context, and validation via extensive testing by the developers.

The ultimate responsibility for the quality, functionality, security, and maintainability of the entire codebase remains firmly with the human developers, who ensure its consistency and reliability.
